lick number 45 Algeria this one also
comes to us from Jon mcglaughlin and is
a great fast sixteenth note run over
kind of more of a straight eighth kind
of group that really captures that whole
fusion sound that is a big part of his
identity take a listen so here's a very
cool pretty complicated John McLaughlin
lick this is played over two dominant
seventh chords basically going to 25 but
the two chord is functioning really as a
secondary dominant so I start here in
seventh position and I'm going from the
tonic down to the seventh and then I go
up to the third and then we have this
nice intervallic skip
forming like a B major triad
then I jump up here to ninth position
and play and then a sequence and then
and in this very common John McLaughlin
kind of lick that you're also here with
a lot of different players of his
generation where we take an interval
akai dia and move it down chromatically
and then down and then then we have this
big intervallic skip of a perfect fifth
on the root and the fifth of the e7 and
then I move up here to 12th position
that same sort of major triad like we
saw back with the B chord and then he
goes now check this out we come down to
the E and he comes up to the f-sharp to
get to the G sharp and then up to an a
sharp over to the F and then to the G
sharp right here in 16th position so
that's a pretty interesting fingering
and then he ends with going back to 12th
position playing and then and then we
come down to C sharp to be in 9th
position
so a lot going on here but a lot of
really cool information so let me play
it for you slowly you can check it out
one two three four again lots of very
cool information in here take it really
slowly try to get all those fingerings
correct and the position and changes and
then come join me in the next one we'll
take a look at some more great jazz
guitar lines